##Stéphane Bisinger
[https://www.sbisinger.ch](https://www.sbisinger.ch) `stephane.bisinger@protonmail.com` `+41 79 635 28 61`

Python - Ruby on Rails - WebPerf

### Qualifications summary
* Extensive experience in many programming languages and frameworks.
* Passionate about performance optimization and code quality.
* Open Source Enthusiast


### Technical Skills
* **Programming Languages**: `Python` `Ruby` `Javascript` `Elixir` `Elm` `C` `...and many others!` 
* **Web Frameworks**: `Rails` `Angular` `React` `Phoenix` `Elm` 
* **Databases**: `PostgreSQL` `MySQL` 

### Education
 Degree | Major | Institution | Graduation Year
:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:
Bachelor of Information Technology | Computer Science | Università di Bologna, Cesena (IT) | 2010


### Professional Experience
* Full Stack Software Developer, Renuo AG, Wallisellen, ZH, Switzerland (Nov. 2016 – Current)
    - Workend on many customer projects using mainly Ruby on Rails and Angular.
    - Took the lead in the Systems Operations working group.
    - Talks and other training events for interns.
    - Transformed the Kinova website to a mobile-first approach.
    - Analysed the web performance of the main projects.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Ruby on Rails` `Angular 2` `Webpack` `React` `Phoenix` 
* Software Engineer, Vendini, Gualdo Tadino, Italy (Jul. 2015 – Sep. 2016)
    - Rewrote from scratch the old patron manager using AngularJS and a REST API.
    - Helped an intern, later hired by the company, to learn the tools and develop his potential as a software engineer.
    - Integrated seamlessly the Angular application in the legacy Zend application sharing authentication between the API and the legacy PHP application.
    - Worked using Agile methodologies following the SCRUM approach.
    - Technologies got to work on: `AngularJS` `Zend Framework` `Laravel` `Docker` `JIRA with Agile` 
* Software Engineer, Teamsystem Spa, Fabriano, Italy (May. 2013 – Jun. 2015)
    - Introduced SOAP and REST/json webservices on the application through WSME, contributing patches to the OpenStack project when needed.
    - Resolved performance issues for a very big client. Being the first client of that size, for the first time the product was delivered with multiple instances all working on the same database and this put the whole infrastructure to the test. Spotting the bottlenecks and resolving the problems with the Python GIL were my best accomplishments.
    - Mantained existing Python code using a custom web framework. Refactoring and the introduction of some unit tests were the added value put on top of normal development work. Also setup a local Jenkins CI to run tests and verify the coverage.
    - Automated the software installation and some end-to-end tests through the watir-webdriver Ruby gem.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Python` `PostgreSQL` `WSME` `Ruby` 
* J2EE Developer, Netprophecy Ltd., London, UK (Mar. 2012 – Jul. 2012)
    - Wrote a tool to manage an international leather goods expo. The project was developed with the ZK Framework using the MVVM pattern.
    - Evaluated the possibility of migrating Java applications to Rails through jRuby.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Java` `ZK` `jBoss` 
* Junior Software Developer, Eutelia, Milan, Italy (Nov. 2006 – Jun. 2007)
    - Worked with a team developing a social network for the italian portal leonardo.it
    - Helped another Junior developer to get up to speed with the project.
    - Created a log system to simplify the development process with detailed error messages.
    - Profiled and optimized the application using xdebug.
    - Wrote the deployment scripts for the production environment with a backup of the previous release.
    - Developed a Python script to synchronize through the Spread Toolkit the user credentials with partner websites to implement a rudimentary Single Sign-On.
    - Technologies got to work on: `PHP` `Zend Framework` `Spread Toolkit` `xdebug` `MySQL` 

### Other Personal Projects
* Open Source contributions
    - vim-test https://github.com/janko-m/vim-test
    - WSME project https://pythonhosted.org/WSME/
    - xhtml2pdf https://github.com/xhtml2pdf/xhtml2pdf
    - aMSN2 project https://github.com/amsn/amsn2
    - centerIM project http://repo.or.cz/centerim.git
* Full Resume
    - StackOverflow CV http://stackoverflow.com/cv/stebis







