##Stéphane Bisinger
[https://www.sbisinger.ch](https://www.sbisinger.ch) `stephane@sbisinger.ch` `+41 79 635 28 61`

Ruby on Rails - WebPerf - Microservices

### Qualifications summary
* Extensive experience in many programming languages.
* Supporter of applications structured around people and teams.
* Passionate about performance optimization and code quality.
* Hooked on Functional Programming.
* Interests in Physics and Chess (although amateur at both).


### Technical Skills
* **Agile &amp; More**: `SCRUM &amp; Kanban` `TDD/BDD` `Pair Programming` `Microservices` 
* **Programming Languages**: `Python` `Ruby` `Javascript` `Elixir` `Elm` `...and many others!` 
* **Web Frameworks**: `Rails` `Angular` `React` `Phoenix` `Flask` 
* **Databases**: `PostgreSQL` `MySQL` `DynamoDB` 

### Education
 Degree | Major | Institution | Graduation Year | GPA
:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:
Bachelor of Information Technology | Computer Science | Università di Bologna, Cesena (IT) | 2010 | 98/110


### Professional Experience
* Senior Software Engineer, Siroop AG, Zürich, ZH, Switzerland (Feb. 2018 – Current)
    - Worked on the streaming data pipeline for product and price updates from merchants.
    - Rewrote Lambdas to process category informations.
    - Refactored a Flask API to be able to switch between DynamoDB and Elasticsearch as source for data.
    - Wrote an alternative consumer for product data reading from RabbitMQ.
    - Took a leading role in the analysis, planning and implementation of the promotion concept.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Python` `Node.js` `DynamoDB` `AWS Lambda` `Flask` `Django` `RabbitMQ` `Terraform` 
* Full Stack Software Developer, Renuo AG, Wallisellen, ZH, Switzerland (Nov. 2016 – Feb. 2018)
    - Worked on many customer projects using mainly Ruby on Rails and Angular.
    - Took the lead in the Systems Operations working group.
    - Tech Talks and other training events for interns.
    - Transformed the Kinova website to a mobile-first approach.
    - Analysed the web performance of the main projects.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Ruby on Rails` `Angular 2` `Webpack` `React` `Phoenix` 
* Software Engineer, Vendini, Gualdo Tadino, Italy (Jul. 2015 – Sep. 2016)
    - Rewrote from scratch the old patron manager using AngularJS and a REST API.
    - Helped an intern, later hired by the company, to learn the tools and develop his potential as a software engineer.
    - Integrated seamlessly the Angular application in the legacy Zend application sharing authentication between the API and the legacy PHP application.
    - Worked using Agile methodologies following the SCRUM approach.
    - Technologies got to work on: `AngularJS` `Zend Framework` `Laravel` `Docker` `JIRA with Agile` 
* Software Engineer, Teamsystem Spa, Fabriano, Italy (May. 2013 – Jun. 2015)
    - Introduced SOAP and REST/json webservices on the application through WSME, contributing patches to the OpenStack project when needed.
    - Resolved performance issues for a very big client. Being the first client of that size, for the first time the product was delivered with multiple instances all working on the same database and this put the whole infrastructure to the test. Spotting the bottlenecks and resolving the problems with the Python GIL were my best accomplishments.
    - Mantained existing Python code using a custom web framework. Refactoring and the introduction of some unit tests were the added value put on top of normal development work. Also setup a local Jenkins CI to run tests and verify the coverage.
    - Automated the software installation and some end-to-end tests through the watir-webdriver Ruby gem.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Python` `PostgreSQL` `WSME` `Ruby` 
* J2EE Developer, Netprophecy Ltd., London, UK (Mar. 2012 – Jul. 2012)
    - Wrote a management tool for an international leather goods expo.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Java` `ZK` `jBoss` 
* C++ Intern, Istituto di Radioastronomia, Medicina (BO), Italy (May. 2009 – Jun. 2010)
    - Internship for my thesis on a software spectrogram with the Intel IPP libraries.
    - Technologies got to work on: `C++` `Boost` `Intel IPP` `Autotools` `Python` `Networking` `Threading` 
* Team Lead, Artetempo, Milan, Italy (Sep. 2007 – Dec. 2007)
* Junior Software Developer, Eutelia, Milan, Italy (Nov. 2006 – Jun. 2007)
    - Technologies got to work on: `PHP` `Zend Framework` `Spread Toolkit` `xdebug` `MySQL` 

### Other Personal Projects
* Open Source contributions
    - El Plan https://github.com/renuo/elplan
    - vim-test https://github.com/janko-m/vim-test
    - WSME project https://pythonhosted.org/WSME/
    - xhtml2pdf https://github.com/xhtml2pdf/xhtml2pdf
    - aMSN2 project https://github.com/amsn/amsn2
    - centerIM project http://repo.or.cz/centerim.git
* Full Resume
    - StackOverflow CV https://stackoverflow.com/story/stebis







