##Stéphane Bisinger
[]()  

Serverless Architecture - eXtreme Programming - TDD

### Qualifications summary
* Close to 20 years of experience in Web development.
* Enjoys growing people and teams to deliver high quality code.
* Varied background with a wide range of experiences.
* Experienced in Serverless architectures.


### Technical Skills
* **Technical practices**: `Pair Programming` `TDD/BDD` `Continuous Delivery` `Trunk-based Development` 
* **Programming Languages**: `Python` `Ruby` `Javascript` `...and many others!` 
* **Web Frameworks**: `Rails` `Vue.js` `Angular` `Flask` 
* **Databases**: `DynamoDB` `PostgreSQL` `MySQL` 


### Professional Experience
* Software Crafter, 42talents GmbH, Zürich, ZH, Switzerland (Apr. 2020 – Current)
    - Optimized the performance and SEO of the main website.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Javascript` 
* Senior Software Engineer, Homegate AG, Zürich, ZH, Switzerland (Aug. 2018 – Mar. 2020)
    - Worked on the reengineering of the Product Display Page and Search Alerts.
    - Introduced new ideas into the teams to improve the effectiveness of our work, such as Pair Programming, Continuous Delivery and Trunk-Based Development
    - Improved observability of the applications by introducing tools like Datadog and Sentry
    - Worked on automation of all tasks, including production deployments and quality checks.
    - Solved complex problems like Server-Side Rendering and Code Splitting in a serverless context.
    - Helped the team split tasks in small deliverables with fast iterations.
    - Took care of leading the technical decisions in collaboration with the rest of the team.
    - Held a course on Webpack for the TX Academy.
    - Technologies got to work on: `AWS` `Node.js` `Vue.js` `Typescript` `DynamoDB` `Datadog` 
* Senior Software Engineer, Siroop AG, Zürich, ZH, Switzerland (Feb. 2018 – Jul. 2018)
    - Worked on the streaming data pipeline for product and price updates from merchants.
    - Rewrote Lambdas to process category information to simplify and support additional languages.
    - Refactored a Flask API to be able to switch between DynamoDB and Elasticsearch as source for data.
    - Wrote an alternative consumer for product data reading from RabbitMQ.
    - Took a leading role in the analysis, planning and implementation of the promotion concept.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Python` `Node.js` `DynamoDB` `AWS Lambda` `Flask` `Django` `RabbitMQ` `Terraform` 
* Full Stack Software Developer, Renuo AG, Wallisellen, ZH, Switzerland (Nov. 2016 – Feb. 2018)
    - Worked on many customer projects using mainly Ruby on Rails and Angular.
    - Took the lead in the Systems Operations working group.
    - Tech Talks and other training events for interns.
    - Transformed the Kinova website to a mobile-first approach.
    - Analyzed the web performance of the main projects.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Ruby on Rails` `Angular 2` `Heroku` `Webpack` `React` `Phoenix` 
* Software Engineer, Vendini, Gualdo Tadino, Italy (Jul. 2015 – Sep. 2016)
    - Rewrote from scratch the old patron manager using AngularJS and a REST API.
    - Helped an intern, later hired by the company, to learn the tools and develop his potential as a software engineer.
    - Integrated seamlessly the Angular application in the legacy Zend application sharing authentication between the API and the legacy PHP application.
    - Worked using Agile methodologies following the Scrum approach.
    - Technologies got to work on: `AngularJS` `Zend Framework` `Laravel` `Docker` `JIRA with Agile` 
* Software Engineer, Teamsystem Spa, Fabriano, Italy (May. 2013 – Jun. 2015)
    - Introduced SOAP and REST/json webservices on the application through WSME, contributing patches to the OpenStack project when needed.
    - Resolved performance issues for a very big client. Being the first client of that size, for the first time the product was delivered with multiple instances all working on the same database and this put the whole infrastructure to the test. Spotting the bottlenecks and resolving the problems with the Python GIL were my best accomplishments.
    - Maintained existing Python code using a custom web framework. Refactoring and the introduction of some unit tests were the added value put on top of normal development work. Additionally setup a local Jenkins CI to run tests and verify the coverage.
    - Automated the software installation and some end-to-end tests through the watir-webdriver Ruby gem.
    - Technologies got to work on: `Python` `PostgreSQL` `WSME` `Ruby` 
* J2EE Developer, Netprophecy Ltd., London, UK (Mar. 2012 – Jul. 2012)
* C++ Intern, Istituto di Radioastronomia, Medicina (BO), Italy (May. 2009 – Jun. 2010)
* Team Lead, Artetempo, Milan, Italy (Sep. 2007 – Dec. 2007)
* Junior Software Developer, Eutelia, Milan, Italy (Nov. 2006 – Jun. 2007)

### Education
 Degree | Major | Institution | Graduation Year | GPA
:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:|:--:
Bachelor of Information Technology | Computer Science | Università di Bologna, Cesena (IT) | 2010 | 98/110

### Other Personal Projects
* Open Source contributions
    - El Plan https://github.com/renuo/elplan
    - vim-test https://github.com/janko-m/vim-test
    - WSME project https://pythonhosted.org/WSME/
    - xhtml2pdf https://github.com/xhtml2pdf/xhtml2pdf
    - aMSN2 project https://github.com/amsn/amsn2
    - centerIM project http://repo.or.cz/centerim.git
* Full Resume
    - StackOverflow CV https://stackoverflow.com/story/stebis







